Update the Dataset Object Documentation (#500)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/dataset_object.rst

====================
The Dataset Object
====================

A Quick Introduction
====================

> The Dataset Object is a simple and robust Object to store tabular data and metadata relevant to Machine Learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dataset Object is a simple and robust Object to store tabular data and metadata relevant for Machine Learning.
```

It allows deepchecks to understand the context of the data with minimal hassle for the user.

> Common information used in Machine Learning that are aggregated in the Dataset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dataset's common metadata properties:
```

>  - **cat_features** - Categorical features normally require some preprocessing before being passed to the model. If not specified, the categorical features are inferred automatically from the data itself. (`Inferring Features And Categorical Features`_ )

Reviewer: Would skip the first part, too specific for here. Would have a very short description - something like "The features that are of categorical type"

>  - **label** - The classes of the classification problem or values of a regression problem.

Reviewer: put this one first.
phrasing should be clear and short (that this represents the target that we're trying to predict in the data. 
(more high level, you wrote it very technical)

>  - **index_name** - This can be useful to track indexes duplicate etc. Like the other arguments, this is not mandatory.

Reviewer: State something about the fact that some datasets have a unique index that may be meaningful (e.g. represents a serial number)

>  - **date_name** - The date the sample was acquired (Useful for TimeSeries problems). This column is standardized using `pd.Timestamp`.

Reviewer: Not necessarily...
A date column representing the sample (wasn't necessarily acquired at that time), may be the time at which it was acquired. (for example - may also be "number of clicks on day X, while they where all acquired post-mortem)

 - **features** - Specifies the columns used by model for training. Used for defining only a subset of the columns in the data as features. If not defined, all columns that aren't explicitly specified as `label`, `date`, or `index` are considered as features.

> All these and more can be defined and accessed on the Dataset Object.

Reviewer: Link here explicitly to the API reference at the bottom?

This allows the user the flexibility to define these column names whichever they seem fit,
and allows use of the these tags to standardize development around this data.

The Basics
==========

> Lets start with building a simple pd.DataFrame that we might already know as a popular data structure to store data.
> But we also have other metadata that we have other use for, and not only as features for the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets start with building a simple `pd.DataFrame` that we might already know as a popular data structure to store data, and demonstrate how the Dataset object should be defined.
```

> 

Reviewer: All of the code blocks should be [literal blocks ](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html#literal-blocks) (right?)
(like in the various numpy code examples)

    >>> d = {"id": [1,2,3,4],
    ...      "feature1": [0.1,0.3,0.2,0.6],
    ...      "feature2": [4,5,6,7],

>     ...      "cat_feature": [0,0,0,1],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ...      "categorical_feature": [0,0,0,1],
```

    ...      "class": [1,2,1,2]}
    ... df = pd.DataFrame(d)

>     ... dataset = Dataset(df, label="class", index_name="id", cat_features=["category"])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ... dataset = Dataset(df, label="class", index_name="id", cat_features=["categorical_feature"])
```

> Now we have built a Dataset that we can easily pull features and labels from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have a Dataset we can also inspect its defined features and label:
```

    >>> dataset.features
    ['feature1', 'feature2', 'category']
    >>> dataset.label_name
    ['class']

> We can also get pd.DataFrames from columns that interest us e.g.:

Reviewer: Maybe more interesting to demonstrate instead (or to state both options and show one of them) - how to show the whole dataframe with `dataset.data`

    >>> dataset.features_columns
        feature1	feature2	category
    0	0.1	        4	        0
    1	0.3	        5	        0
    2	0.2	        6	        0
    3	0.6	        7	        1

Now we can see that only features columns are pulled, which is save us the hassle

> of tracking externally what is a feature column and what isn't one.

Reviewer: a bit redundant (long, doesn't really add information)

We can see the same thing happening here with the label_column. Instead of tracking an X DataFrame and a y DataSeries,
we have it all in one single object:

    >>> dataset.label_col
        class
    0	1
    1	2
    2	1
    3	2

> now instead of needing keeping track fo the label column, we can track it within the the Dataset Object.

Reviewer: ok now I get it - you want to show that this can also be extracted directly - to get the relevant slice of the dataframe, with the specifc class parameters.
This is good.
But the explanation should be improved. We're demonstrating convenient usage options, that can be useful for the user, however no need to try to make it sound fancy, can keep it simple.

Inferring Features And Categorical Features
===========================================

> Dataset defines which columns of the data are features and of them which are categorical features.
> For features, if parameter `features` not passed explicitly, all will be considered features apart from the label, index and date.
> For categorical features, if parameter `cat_features` not passed explicitly, the following logic runs on every column to determine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dataset defines which columns of the data are considered as the model's features, and of them, which are treated as categorical features.
For features, if parameter `features` not passed explicitly, all columns besides the the `label`, `index `and `date `will be considered as features.
For categorical features, if the parameter `cat_features` was not passed explicitly, the following inference logic will run on each column to determine
```

> For categorical features, if parameter `cat_features` not passed explicitly, the following logic runs on every column to determine

Reviewer: and replace sentence after (which it won't let me review on since it's not part of this PR, as:
how it will be treated.

(instead of `whether the column is categorical or not:`)

====================
The Dataset Object
====================

A Quick Introduction
====================

The Dataset Object is a simple and robust Object to store tabular data and metadata relevant to Machine Learning.

Common information used in Machine Learning that is aggregated in the Dataset:
 - features

>     List of column names. This is the features that are passed to the model. If not defined, columns not defined as something else is considered a feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    List of column names. This parameter specifies the features the model is trained on. If not defined, columns that are not defined as label, date, or index are considered as features.
```

 - cat_features

>     List of column names. A subset of the features. Categorical features normally require some preprocessing before being passed to the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    List of column names. A subset of the features. Categorical features normally require some preprocessing before being passed to the model. If not specified, the categorical features are inferred automatically from the data itself.
```

Reviewer 2: And also we should line here to the categorical inference heuristic detailed below.

Reviewer: See my general note above about phrasing

>  - label

Reviewer 2: Actually, when reading the doc I think we should rename the label parameter to target.
What do you guys think?
@shir22 @noamzbr @benisraeldan @matanper  @nirhutnik @JKL98ISR

   Either name of a column, or `pd.Series`. The classes of the classification problem or values of a regression problem.
 - index_name
    Name of the index column. This can be useful to track indexes duplicate etc. Like the other arguments, this is not manditory.

>  - date_name

Reviewer 2: I think we should specify the accepted format with an example

Reviewer: yes, can be good - though this is also something that I think should be explicit and clear in the API Reference (also so we won't need to maintain double...)

    Name of the date column. The date the sample was acquired (Useful for TimeSeries problems). This column is standardized using `pd.Timestamp`.

All these and more can be defined and accessed on the Dataset Object.

> This allows the user the flexibility to define these column names whichever they seam fit,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows the user the flexibility to define these column names whichever they seem fit,
```

* else:
    *  number of unique < `max_categories` AND (number of unique / number of samples) < `max_categorical_ratio`

Useful Functions
================

> Create Dataset From a Numpy Arrays

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Dataset from Numpy Arrays
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A Dataset can be created using a 2D numpy array for features and 1D numpy array for the labels. The features array is mandatory, and the labels array is optional.

    >>> features = np.array([[0.25, 0.3, 0.3], [0.14, 0.75, 0.3], [0.23, 0.39, 0.1]])
    >>> labels = np.array([0.1, 0.1, 0.7])
    >>> dataset_with_labels = Dataset.from_numpy(features, labels)
    >>> dataset_without_labels = Dataset.from_numpy(features)

Also, it's possible to assign names to the features and label:

    >>> Dataset.from_numpy(
    ...     features, labels,
    ...     feature_names=['feat1', 'feat2', 'feat3',],
    ...     label_name='target'
    ... )

> All the rest of the Dataset's properties can be passed also as a regular keyword arguments:
> 
>     >>> Dataset.from_numpy(
>     ...     features, labels,
>     ...     feature_names=['feat1', 'feat2', 'feat3',],
>     ...     label_name='target',
>     ...     max_float_categories=10
>     ... )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the rest of the Dataset's properties can be passed also as regular keyword arguments:

    >>> Dataset.from_numpy(
    ...     features, labels,
    ...     feature_names=['feat1', 'feat2', 'feat3',],
    ...     label_name='target',
    ...     max_float_categories=10
    ... )
```

Suggested a small grammar fix, but not sure - why is this needed - what does it demonstrate?

Reviewer 3: Did you run this code example? I think this doesn't work since the features names won't match the column names

Train Test Split
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Using the `sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split.html>`_ but also copies the metadata to each instance of the split.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses internally `sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split.html>`_ (so same arguments can be passed) and also copies the metadata to each instance of the split and returns two Datasets.
```

>     >>> train_dataset, test_dataset = dataset.train_test_split()

Reviewer: not clear here if "dataset" is an existing Dataset that you called dataset, or if it's the class
give an example that gives the whole context (includes the actual creation).
in other words - where is the original dataset here?

and can give a clearer example, e.g. use the` train_test_split'`s popular `stratify` argument, and send the label column to it

Copy
~~~~

> Copy allows copying of metadata on a new dataframe. This can be used on data that already is passed the train test split.

Reviewer: rephrase
(second sentence is not clear, but in general this line can be improved)

Reviewer: also maybe give a different example, to not confuse the user the the train_test_split which is right above
(they might think "wait, after I do the train_test_split I need to copy the metadata?"

    >>> test_dataset = train_dataset.copy(test_df)

> Full API Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dataset API Reference
```

Reviewer: Do we want the API reference itself? maybe only a link to it in several places?

Author: I'm open to suggestions for linking, I couldn't find how to link to the generated API
